---
title: Truth
---

This is a recap of the third session for a [Masks] game that I ran,
called [Deep 13](/games/deep-13.html).

You can read the previous sessions here:
[Tank](2016-03-06-tank.html) and
[Kidnap](2016-03-20-kidnap.html).

----

Bheema's player was missing this time, but our earlier absence
made a character and joined us, giving us **Alternity**, **Fang**,
and a Nova character, **Theo**, who accesses the same
other dimension as Alternity.

When last we left off, the team was on the trail of
**Dr. Xander Hong**, the probable leader of the "Dark Angel"
program responsible for abducting and experimenting on super-humans
for the war effort against the alien Zeta.

Bheema stays behind to watch over Vicky's place,
just in case any agents of **Control** make a move against her.
Fang contacts a fellow Deep 13 ally called Theo.
The group decide to abduct Dr. Hong from the street,
as his armored limousine drives him to or from work.

Working together, the extradimensional sorcerers and the furry alien
pilot Fang's craft through the other-space, using psychic echoes
as landmarks.

They emerge on the street just as Dr. Hong's limo comes by.
Inside are three people - Hong, his research assistant, and a chauffeur.
Fang attempts to grab the good doctor but is restrained by the
chauffeur - a combat cyborg!
Fang goes flying through the roof and out onto the street.
Behind him, Theo tries to blast the borg,
and manages to destroy the limo.
The blast sends Hong and his assistant flying through
an enlarged portal, and tumbling into the other-space.

Fang darts through the portal and takes off after the assistant.
Meanwhile, Alternity notices a grasping hand, made of the psycho-matter
of the other world, reaching out through the portal to the real world.
She exerts effort to close the portal.
The effort is too much at first.
Then the powers of the other dimension offer her that extra 'push',
in gratitude for the souls now drifting deeper into its grasp.

The heroes dart deeper into the otherspace, rescuing Dr. Hong and his assistant.
During the trip back, it's discovered that the doctor has a false
tooth and is stopped at the last second from activating it.
The team resolves to visit Alternity's sanctum and use its medical
equipment to strip him of his defenses.

On the way there, the usual landmarks for navigating in the other
dimension become hazy and indistinct.
The interference can be traced to Dr. Hong, who may have made a pact
with the strange keeper of this space.
Once he is stunned with Fang's alien weaponry,
the team arrive and begin their work.

Hong and the research assistant are deftly stripped of any dangerous gear.
While Fang attempts to use telepathy to probe the doctor's mind,
the sanctum comes under attack from the other dimension's denizens,
inspired by Alternity's nemesis and master of this place: the **Eternalizer**.

Theo draws on his own power over the psycho-matter of the dimension
to hold back the attacks, while Alternity works to strip Hong of
some of his more dangerous implants.
The attacks are too distracting, and Hong too well equipped,
for her to do it confidently.
But at a critical moment, when she seems doomed to failure
and the attack close in, a moment of truth becomes clear to her.
She reaches out to seize control of the psycho-matter of the surrounding
universe, overriding the Eternalizer's mastery of it.
The last of Hong's defenses fall and his mind is laid bare.

The entire record of the Dark Angel project, including passwords,
history, and the crimes the project has committed, materialize
into an exact copy of Hong's tablet device, constructed from psycho-matter.

With the team's mission accomplished,
they leave the sanctum to return Hong to Halcyon City.
As they do, they are pursued by a "mini-submarine",
built for exploring the other dimension by Alternity's father,
**Dr. Victor Richards**.

The team's craft is fast and maneuverable,
but the other dimension is still chaotic,
and they barely outrun the sub in time to reach a portal to the real world.
Once there, Alternity's mobile phone shows a call from her father.
Theo impulsively throws the phone out of the craft.
Behind them, the sub's occupants have transferred to a Halcyon City
police vehicle, but the team eventually loses them.

Back at a safe house provided by Deep 13,
Alternity and Theo get into an argument and go their separate ways.
Fang answers a knock at the door from a mysterious figure in a hoodie,
which turns out to be Dr. Richards.

"Is my daughter here?"

[Masks]: http://www.magpiegames.com/masks/
