---
title: Tank
---

This is a recap of the first session for a [Masks] game that I ran,
called [Deep 13](/games/deep-13.html).

My Sunday group took a break from our "Fate of the Diaspora" Fate Core
game, and we discussed what we wanted to do in the time slot
until we picked it up again.
Several games were discussed, most leaning toward PbtA, including
Uncharted Worlds, the work I'm doing on Fairy Soul, and so forth.
Ultimately, Masks won out.

----

We were missing a player, so we went ahead with the three people we had.
I pitched a utopian/dystopian **Halcyon City** as a pervasive surveillance
state on a wartime footing, fighting the **Zeta aliens** and their moon base.
The characters would be acting as rebels against the establishment,
but still fighting to keep the planet safe and show the older, more cynical
heroes a new way of doing things.

Alan created **Alternity**, aka Jess. Alternity uses the "Doomed" playbook.
She conjures constructs from extradimensional matter, but the space
from which she pulls her constructs has a sentient - and hungry - master.
It's only a matter of time before she loses control and disappears in there,
the way her mother did.

Ian creates **Fang**. Fang uses the "Outsider" playbook.
Fang's gender is indeterminate, due partially to being a furry telepathic alien "wolfling".
Fang is haughty, but still helpful, and trying to prove eir skill
rather than merely inherit a high-ranking position in eir government.

Manu creates **Bheema**, aka Suresh. Bheema uses the "Bull" playbook.
When the game begins, he's trapped in a Control military laboratory,
the target of forced power evolution and experimentation
to make him into a better weapon against the Zeta.

----

The game begins with Suresh in a tank, being held captive as a test subject and guinea pig
by the military-science establishment in charge of Halcyon City, called **Control**.
He gains his freedom with the aid of a sympathetic lab tech named Vicky,
who arranges a power outage to cover his escape.

The pirate radio station known only as "Deep 13" has been assisting
other people in Suresh's situation by announcing rendezvous spots
and sending independent supers to those spots.
Suresh follows their instructions to such a meetup,
in one of Halcyon City's many underground tunnels.
He is pursued by Control security guards and a robotic spider-tank,
who catch up with him just as Alternity and Fang arrive to escort him.

Alternity summons a wall of extradimensional matter to block the Control
agents from reaching Bheema, but the spider tank starts carving a hole
through it with a high-tech device mounted on its turret.
Meanwhile, Fang hustles Bheema into a side tunnel to make a getaway.

Alternity tries another trick, raising another wall to block off
the getaway route.
Unfortunately, she loses control and creates a vortex, drawing
everything nearby (including two unfortunate Control security men)
into the other-dimensional space.
As she races to close it off, the spider tank opens fire and pins her down.
By creating a veil of smoke, she manages to evade the attack, close
the vortex, and rejoin her companions.

The soldiers follow the trio into the tunnel, but Fang holds them off
with suppressive fire from eir alien arsenal.
The heroes break into an underground ventilation center, adjacent
to a railway track.
There's a side tunnel where Fang's personal aerospace craft is hidden,
but the spider tank is coming down the rail tunnel after them!

The heroes cooperate to tear up the rails,
and manage to pin the spider tank to the wall with a length of rail.
However, Alternity conjures another extradimensional mass, but again
creates a vortex that hungers for sacrifice.
Rather than send any more people through to their doom,
and knowing she can return from it under her own power,
she allows herself to be sucked in while Fang and Bheema escape.

The personal aerospace craft escapes the tunnels and navigates its way
out of Halcyon City to evade any other pursuit and get some breathing room.

As Suresh is changing out of his lab-provided clothing,
wary of tracking devices,
Alternity re-emerges from the other dimension thanks to a gem-like
pendant she left in the craft for just such an occasion.
Although only a few hours have passed for the other heroes,
for her a few days have gone by, and she is exhausted.

The heroes sneak back into town to buy some clothes for Bheema
and food for Alternity.
Bheema checks in with his uncle Ajay, arriving just in time to spot
Control soldiers encouraging him to report if Suresh appears.
Ajay welcomes the young man into his home and offers him support.

The heroes call Deep 13 using an encrypted channel, and Bheema tells his story.
It's repeated over the air for other members of the resistance to hear.
Deep 13 promises to provide forged identity papers and other assistance.

Alternity visits her father, a high-ranking scientist who works with
the **Science Council**, the senior civilian leadership of Control.
He was the one who helped discover the other dimension that Alternity's powers
access, and his wife was lost in that dimension a long time ago.
He is mounting an expedition to try and locate her, and invites Jess to join him.
She refuses after learning of the intense background checks and
additional surveillance that joining the mission would call for,
and rejects her father's embrace of science at any cost.

Fang leads the heroes to eir home in the alien enclave of Halcyon City.
There, they listen as other callers on the Deep 13 broadcast
express their solidary and support for Bheema's struggle.

[Masks]: http://www.magpiegames.com/masks/
