---
title: Kidnap
---

This is a recap of the second session for a [Masks] game that I ran,
called [Deep 13](/games/deep-13.html).

You can read the previous session here: [Tank](2016-03-06-tank.html).

You can read the next session here: [Truth](2016-04-17-truth.html).

----

We were still missing a player, so we went ahead with our existing
PCs: **Alternity**, **Bheema**, and **Fang**.

When last we left off, the team was hunkered down in Fang's home
in the alien enclave of **Halcyon City**, the urban fortress overseen
by the quasi-governmental organization **Control**.

After some discussion, the group decided their best move would be to
expose the "Dark Angel" project within Control that had captured Suresh
and other supers like him.
Bheema spent some time talking about his love interest **Vicky**,
who worked as a lab technician on the program.
Alternity, struggling with her own feelings for Bheema,
left the house in a huff after failing to goad him into coming with her.

She visited her father's house in the upper levels of Halcyon City.
Finding his workstation unlocked, she rifled through his electronic files,
doing her best to be subtle.
Suddenly the machine shut itself off and Control security forces appeared,
scanned her ID, and suggested she either come with them to meet her father
or leave the premises.

However, Alternity's time on the computer was enough to pull up a possible
lead to the mysterious "Dark Angel" program's leadership:
a man named **Dr. Xander Hong**.

She went to his address and found a high-tech fortified building.
Rather than risk alerting the electronic security or armed guards,
she attempted to use her extradimensional powers to 'peer into' the building.
This backfired as a vision of damned souls,
complete with hands reaching out to pull her in,
was all she received from the other dimension.

Meanwhile, Bheema asks Fang to go talk to Vicky and let her know he's okay.
Vicky lives in a lower-class area of town.
When Fang knocks, a white-bearded old man, her grandfather, answers the door.
Vicky is there, and safe, and Fang delivers the message telepathically
while making small-talk with her.

Vicky immediately tries to dial a phone number,
and Fang feels the presence of strong post-hypnotic conditioning.
The girl has been programmed to call Control if she learns of any escapees
from the program!
Fang is able to block out the effect,
but Vicky faints, and her grandfather calls the police.
Unable to fully undo the conditioning before the cops arrive, Fang flees.

Bheema is furious on finding out about the conditioning.
He and Fang concoct a plan to pull Vicky out of the subway
on her way to work, in order to undo the conditioning.
The pair shadow the girl, wait until she's aboard a subway car,
then pull the emergency lever to stop the train and sneak her off.
Fang disables the lights with alien tech,
and stuns Vicky into unconsciousness so she can't call Control again.

At this moment, a figure in a hoodie arrives in the tunnel.
It's Gordon, another member of the "Dark Angel" program,
who betrayed Suresh at a critical moment when he could have escaped.
Now going by the alias **Breakbeat**, the quisling super challenges
Bheema to a fight!

As Fang tries to exert telepathy on Vicky,
Bheema's strength is pitted against Breakbeat's destructive sonic powers.
Fang can't break through, due to the distractions from the combat
and Vicky's own mind resisting due to their earlier encounter.

More soldiers are heard coming down the subway tunnel.
At that moment, Alternity feels her friends in danger.
She uses her powers to teleport from the upper levels to the tunnel,
arriving just in time to cut off reinforcements.

Bheema and Breakbeat smash through the tunnel into an older part of
Halcyon City, the areas destroyed years ago by the Zeta.
They fight further, challenging each other with words as well as their powers.

Though Bheema seems to have the upper hand in the struggle,
Fang is still unable to get through to Vicky and it's only a matter of time
before something happens.
Alternity opens an interdimensional portal to her sanctum,
and the group hustle Vicky through the opening.
Breakbeat runs off, grinning.

Using the exotic technology available in the Sanctum to keep the girl calm,
Fang is finally unable to break through her conditioning for good.
However, she doesn't want to leave the program:
she believes that a transfer away from Dark Angel's super-secret
and unethical activities will probably cause them to erase her memories,
and she doesn't want to forget Suresh.
Plus, she wants to stay behind and help the other test subjects.
Reluctantly, Bheema acknowledges her wishes.
Fang attempts to create a 'faux conditioning' that will pass inspection,
if anyone else tests her mental status.

The group leave Vicky in a safe place, and talk about what to do next.
The best move seems to be to mentally interrogate Dr. Hong,
learn Dark Angel's secrets, and shut the program down.

Meanwhile, back at Control...

Breakbeat reports to Dr. Xander Hong that "the tracking device was picked up".
Hong has energy readings from the area of the fight,
and orders that Dr. Richards - Alternity's father - be contacted.

[Masks]: http://www.magpiegames.com/masks/
