Summary: Eden is the name of a mercenary training school.
Categories: iria

= Eden =

'''Eden''' is the name of a mercenary training school. It fields soldiers and war-leaders, and provides training to new recruits. Its leadership makes every effort to remain anonymous and politically neutral. Eden's schools, or "gardens", are scattered around the world. Their symbol is a closed fist surmounted by a flower petal, and "graduates" often have this symbol tattooed on the backs of their hands.

== History ==

The General of the Blue Dragon Army, along with his entire command, instigated a ''coup d'etat'' against the king of the Sur Vane states. To preserve the honor of the royal family, he intended to extract a confession from the corrupt king and expose his crimes once he had been captured. Unfortunately, the coup failed. The king killed himself and the General and his staff were exiled before the truth could come to light.

The Blue Dragon family was disgraced. But the General and his fellows knew they had acted on the side of justice. They aimed to put their honor, and their martial skills, to good use. In their exile, they founded the first garden and began recruiting men. They trained the most promising ones using the Blue Dragon manual and passed on the Five Talon fighting styles.

It is whispered that some of Eden's best trainees are educated magically. Some say that sorcerer-swordsmen possess their students' bodies using arcane magic, then direct them through the drills and maneuvers. Others hint at darker sources of Eden graduates' remarkable proficiency.

== Current Activities ==

Eden's fighting men typically do not engage in wars between mortal nations. Instead, they fight [[Vores]] and other monsters. They have become involved in wars between Irians, but generally only where honor is at stake. Eden's anonymous leadership is quite wary of wars for temporal gain, and they are quite politically savvy - another inheritance of the Blue Dragon army.
