Summary: Kenjin is the alias of a former noble of the Dwarvish underground kingdom of Jouss Escad.
Categories: iria

= Kenjin =

'''Kenjin''' is the alias of a former noble of the Dwarvish underground kingdom of [[Jouss Escad]].  Those that know him think of him as what he appears to be: a hard-drinking, boisterous, adventurous traveler.

Kenjin is the captain and owner of the Silver Rose, a modified [[Malvet]] airship.  He sold his lands and holdings to purchase the airship and make substantial mundane and magical changes to it.  Since then, he has traveled the world, taking on and leaving behind whatever crew he sees fit.  He has an uncanny knack for finding old ruins and promising archaeological digs, and his endless supply of connections ensures that buyers will be found for whatever he brings back.

Kenjin exhibits a fair amount of scholarly knowledge.  He retains his aristocratic skills and has developed the cunning skills of a merchant besides.  He avoids physical confrontation wherever possible.  He is skilled in the use of the heavy blades favored by Dwarven nobles, but his skills have atrophied somewhat.  He prefers for his crew to handle such business.

== The Map ==

Kenjin's secret is a discovery he made while overseeing excavations in his territory.  He found the remains of a Zoan military outpost - and most importantly, a virtually complete set of geographic maps for the outpost's administrative region.  He himself destroyed the outpost with explosives before his workers were able to learn of the discovery.

This destruction is what ultimately led to his ostracism from Jouss Escad.  Nobody knows for sure what his real motives were in concealing the map.  Whether he ultimately had the mercenary nature to deprive others of his find, or whether there was some secret he felt he couldn't reveal, he chose the path of disgrace and exile - and profit.
