Summary: Various Separatist Cults oppose all contact with the Other.
Categories: iria

= Separatist Cults =

Various '''Separatist Cults''' oppose all contact with [[The Other|the Other]].  They oppose arcane and divine magic equally, consider the temples and churches to be dangerous, and oppose a unified extermination of all [[Vores]].  Certain extremist cults advocate the slaying (or at least isolation) of all "inhumans" - all those not of pure human blood, such as the elves.

The term "Separatist" refers to the separation of Iria and the Other.  Among the religious, they are referred to as heretics.

== Origins ==

Separatist cults usually emerge as a result of a rogue wizard's actions, Vore attacks, and similar incidents.  The most active cults emerged at the time the Dragon's Nest became inhabited by dragons and other monsters.  Today, Separatists regularly cause trouble for the Summoners who live and work around the Nest.

== Ideologies ==

Separatists regard [[The Compact]] as a vital document and often make extravagant claims about the dangers it alludes to.  Some are not opposed to technology or advanced weapons such as firearms (which they consider to give them an edge against spellcasters).  Others consider technology and magic to be equally dangerous, and advocate a return to a more pastoral existence.

A few Separatists are known to use [[Vores]].  They will capture them, and either unleash them on temples and holy sites, or train them.  These extremist groups are universally reviled, even by other Separatist cults.  It is because of their actions that mere membership in a Separatist cult is grounds for the death sentence in certain nations.

In most areas of the world, membership in a Separatist cult is itself not a crime, although members keep their beliefs secret.  Almost anything that a cult would actually do, however, would be against the law.
