Summary: The Other is the name given to Iria's "twin world".
Categories: iria

= The Other =

'''The Other''' is the name given to Iria's "twin world".  While Iria is the world of Order, the Other is the world of Chaos.  Things age and die in Iria; new life constantly blossoms and renews itself in the Other.  Iria has structure, peace, and rules.  The Other is mindless, constantly in flux, and random.

The Other is a seething cauldron of probability and possibility.  New creations constantly emerge from the fabric of its existence.  Storms of chaos tear across the face of the Other, violently rearranging anything they come into contact with.

Despite this endless parade of madness, the Other is inhabited.  Indeed, every single part of the Other is "alive" in some sense.  Its more powerful inhabitants, however, desperately crave the order and structure that Iria possesses.  Without it, they are at risk of changing at any time into something new and unknown.  Their very existence is threatened by the heedless caprice of their homeworld.  And so they bargain with the mortal creatures of Iria, offering their vast powers in exchange for the one thing they cannot have on their own: stability.

The Other is commonly called the "dream world", because it is believed that human dreams project the soul into that world.  Likewise, it is thought that the avatars of various Court members are their dreams projecting into our world.

== Magic and Monsters ==

:''Main Article:'' [[Magic]]

All magic, and all monsters, originate in the Other.  Indeed, magic is nothing more than a controlled harnessing of the same forces that are responsible for Vores.

== Glamour and Dross ==

The forces of stasis and change are known as Glamour and Dross.  Together they form the energies of magic.

:''Main Article:'' [[Glamour and Dross]]

== The Courts ==

The forces of the other are organized into forty-eight Courts, modeled on human monarchies.  Some have chosen to grant power to chosen mortals.

:''Main Article:'' [[The Courts]]

== Vores ==

Creatures from the Other sometimes escape into Iria, forming a threat to life everywhere.

:''Main Article:'' [[Vores]]

== Dream Zones ==

When magic is frequently used, it leaves a residual presence which accumulates over time.

:''Main Article:'' [[Dream Zones]]
