Summary: No summary
Categories: stories/dream-society
Original-Date: July 30 1997
Author: Bill Garrett

# Welcome to my World

My new secretary tells me he'll be sending this to Science Fiction Age magazine. I didn't think it would make Psychology Today, but I suppose that after several years of play-acting, one tires of being classified as science-fiction.

My name is Irvin. The last time I heard a family name was years ago, and I honestly don't remember it anymore. I don't think it's very important, and my secretary's offer to research me in the hospital records was politely turned down. I enjoy my life better here.

I was born in 1968 in a small town in Louisiana, an hour or so north of New Orleans. My family was poor, and I attended the local grade school up to the 7th grade. After that, I just stopped going to school. I suppose it was my own fault; my uncle bought me a game for my birthday, Advanced Dungeons and Dragons. My uncle was a writer in New Orleans who had helped TSR develop their original game, and he wanted to get me started on it too. I don't think he realized how much I needed a creative outlet. I seized on the game and made it my all-consuming passion. With typical youthful energy, I poured my soul into it. I gathered a group of my friends, taught them to play, and started the very first D&D group in my town (a dubious claim to fame, as we were the only group in town for over a year).

It was after three years that the dreams began, almost at the same time my parents kicked me out. Maybe I was just retreating from the shock of suddenly having no home and no support. Whatever it was, I'm strangely grateful for it. It provided me with the impetus to grow up that I never had when I was with my folks. I found a job working in fast-food and continued to support my AD&D hobby as best I could. I tried to save up enough money for Gencon but every time I was about to register, something came up and I had to put the money into other places. I guess that's part of why I started dreaming too. I couldn't really visualize all the fantasies I had in any other way. Most of the members of my original roleplaying group were in high school or already away at college, and I couldn't build up any interest in the other kids. I hadn't attended high school and I had no plans of going to college, and no way to afford it.

Growing up was hard for me, but I did it. But at what cost? I lost my job and begged my way back into my parents' house, promising that I'd find a way to pay for myself, but I just couldn't do it. The dreams were getting stronger and stronger, and my day life was becoming less and less important.

But what dreams they were. Every night was like entering another world. Sometimes I would be a brave knight fighting dragons; sometimes I was the half-undead sorcerer Le Destructeur, sometimes I was the King of the entire land. But most often I was the Dungeon Master, feeling my very essence flow through the cold stone walls and the heart of kingdoms that I created. After the dreams began, my remaining play group told me I had come up with my best adventures. The dreams were incredibly vivid, and I often remembered them in preference to things that had happened in real life.

I don't know exactly when it happened, and in fact I wasn't really aware that it was happening, until I was informed by my ghost writer of my current situation. As it was related to me, I am in a coma at Chestnut Hospital in New Orleans. Or I am a vegetable; the description differs, being a third-hand account combed from various sources at the hospital. I feel bad sometimes about not even noticing. I suppose slipping into a coma ought to be a major turning point in someone's life, but all I noticed was that I dreamed a lot more often.

The other thing I noticed was that the people in my dreams were becoming more and more real. They were actually surprising me with the things they'd do in my dungeons. One day they all approached me, while I was playing an NPC (something else that was quite a new development from my original dreams). They said, "We don't know your name, sir, and we hope you don't mind that we've been using your dreaming here to play out our games, and you've been most obliging. But we thought we should let you know where you are, since you're still in dream-haze."

With that, I was formally introduced to something called the Dreaming Society. As I was to learn, it was a semi-organized group of people who had found out that dreams are, in fact, another form of living, and had banded together to socialize and cooperate. Whenever a normal person dreams, they come into the dream-world in a place called the Wilds. The Wilds are constantly changing as people appear and disappear in their dreams there, and it's easy to get lost there unless you know what you're doing. At the "center" of the world is the Dreaming Society. I found out they have actual nations and countries here. It seems that the worlds I was creating were actually filling up huge sections of the Wilds and starting to border on some of the established nations. Roleplayers from around the Society had heard of these new countries and had come to see what was going on.

The NPCs that I featured in my worlds, the lesser characters that ran "on automatic", the animals, monsters, and everything else, were what the Society called "cognates", or dream-illusions. Scientists who studied the dream-world in their spare time had been amazed by the number of cognates I was able to sustain at once. All the while, more and more roleplayers were coming into my countries and exploring. I created a city called Portal that served as a way of introducing new players to the customs and traditions of my game-world.

In 1989 I was formally approached by the Committee to submit a charter for my countries for inclusion in the Dreaming Society. It was at that time that the full import of what I was doing hit me. I had gone from a kid who couldn't hold down a job flipping burgers to the head of state for a country. Who cared that it was all a dream? Nobody else saw the Society as any less real than "dayside".

If I had to recount the most significant time in my life, I think that'd come a close second. What I consider to be the most important event in my life was when I talked Shannen Olson out of suiciding.

When I first met Shannen, he was in high school and I was in my early 20's (I believe). He had been raised on a game system called Rolemaster and was a new dreamer. Unfortunately, I saw all the same tendencies in him that I had seen in myself. We formed a friendship quickly: I taught him all I could about roleplaying and the Dreaming Society, and he told me about what was happening to the dayside world.

One night he came in from the Wilds and just sat down in a Portal tavern. So naturally I walk up as an NPC and introduce myself as who I really am once I've sat down. Shannen tells me he's about to go off to college. He tells me that he's been dreaming less and less, and that he's losing his regular play group. I talk to him for awhile. And Shannen looks me straight in the eye and says, "I'm going to kill myself tonight."

Needless to say I was stunned and shocked. I knew him well enough that I could tell he wasn't talking about his character. He was talking about dayside. Suicide. So I looked him right back in the eye and said, "I wish I could wake up and give you a phone call, Shannen. I wish I could." You should have seen the tears come to his eyes. "Why can't you?" he asked. To this day I don't know if that would have stopped him faster.

So I told him, "Shannen.. I'm going to tell you something I don't think I've ever revealed. I don't know where my body is or even if I'm alive. Maybe this is just a really long dream, or maybe I'm in a coma or something. But I haven't seen dayside in years."

"Son," I said (I call everyone son. Most find it annoying). "Son, there's nothing I wouldn't give to see the light of day again. There's a time for dreaming, and there's a time for being awake. You'll never, ever lose your place here in the Society. If you're dreaming less, that's normal. I've seen it happen here.. people have stopped dreaming for awhile, then come back." We talked for a long while. I don't know what did it, but he finally agreed that he'd see how things went.

It's a few years later, and he's about to graduate. His grades weren't anything special, but he got involved in all kinds of clubs and organizations. He's going to become a civil engineer, doing architectural studies and construction and surveying. He hasn't really dreamed as much; I see him here every month or two, but he seems very happy with his new life. He told me that the Society gave him what he needed, recognition that he could be creative, something his family never could give him. Maybe he'll come back to the Society someday. But for now, he's happy. And I am glad of it.

My secretary at this point deserves an introduction. He's a doctor from Pembroke who also dreams. He met me, introduced himself, and eventually I told him my story and my name. He went in search of me and found me in New Orleans. He couldn't get custody of me without my family's approval, and obviously there was no way for me to tell my parents that it was ok. But he found out a few things for me, despite the fact I told him not to.

My younger brother David is just starting college. My family moved to New Orleans so they could be near the hospital, and they come every month or so to see me. It used to be every week, then less and less. I wish there was something I could do to reassure them.

I was diagnosed with Parkinson's disease shortly after entering the hospital, although I entered a comatose state faster than is normal and the normal neurological damage associated with Parkinson's is proceeding abnormally slowly in my case. The New Orleans doctors are mystified, but my family refused to allow me to be taken to a specialized center. I don't anticipate being cured, but I still have thoughts of returning to the sunlit world. For now, I'm content with where I am.

I suppose that's all anyone can ask. I've found a position in life where I can make a difference. People can argue that dreams aren't valid or real. But the people who dream with me are quite real; what does it matter that we're not awake?