---
title: 3D
template: fullpage-title.jade
---

David Daryl Dexter is 14 years old. Ever since he can remember, he's loved computers, and he's been incredibly good with them.

His father encouraged this hobby, as it helped during the long times when he was away on Army business and young David needed attention. They could communicate via e-mail, video chat, and the like.

David liked working on his father's big computer, and kept it clean of problems. One day, his father left the house to help some friends, leaving David to solve a particularly perplexing problem with one of his spreadsheets. Unbeknownst to David, the computer was still securely connected to a top-secret military network - to a project investigating a crashed UFO and its components, in fact.

David somehow made contact with an entity living in the UFO's own system, who taught him about a "metacomputer" and the power of calculation. The artificial intelligence in the UFO could bring virtual objects into the real world, and offered David assistance in his own life if it would help him repair itself and eventually get home.

David accepted, and the superhero 3D was born.

3D has a variety of powers, stemming from his ability to "reprogram" his own body and mind, and his ability to bring virtual objects to a temporary real life. His powers closely follow his understanding of contemporary computer science, and grow as he learns more about the "metacomputer" which underlies all other forms of computing device.

Example powers:

* **Firewall**: resist mental intrusions and power tampering.
* **Five Nines**: 3D's body is self-healing, with the ability to "roll back" damaging changes.
* **Digital Memory**: a photographic recollection of facts and experiences.
* **Emulation**: the ability to master new skills very quickly, or copy skills he can observe.
* **Reality Graphics**: the ability to remodel his body into a new appearance, or with new capabilities.

3D can switch between his powerful "super" form and his real body, a teen in glasses and tennis shoes, with the help of SELA - the Simulated Electronic Life Algorithm, the intelligence of the UFO who accompanies him. SELA modeled herself after David's (somewhat exaggerated) description of a typical Earth girl, and appears either as a human or a tiny mechanical doll.

----

This is 3D as a beginning superhero, not fully in control of his powers and still learning what it means to be a hero. His basic stats represent his teenage incarnation.

STR 10, DEX 15, CON 10, INT 40, EGO 10, PRE 10 [15]

OCV 3, DCV 3, OMCV 3, DMCV 3, SPD 2 [0]

PD 2 ED 2 REC 4 END 20 BODY 10 STUN 10 [0]

Computer Programming 17-; Cryptography 17-; Deduction 17-; Electronics 17-; Inventor 17-; Mechanics 17-; Power: Metaprogramming 17-; Systems Operation 17- [24]

Computer Brain: Eidetic Memory; Lightning Calculator; Speed Reading [12]

Word Processing: Universal Translator [20]

Reality Graphics: Multipower, 80 points:

Force Field: Barrier 10mx5mx1/2m, PD 20 ED 20 BODY 7 [16]
Antigravity Equation: Flight 60m x32 NCV [16]
Virtual Weapons: Hand Attack +6d6 [5]
Super Form: all powers OIHID (-1/4)

Superheroic Build: STR +30, CON +10, SPD +3, PD +13, ED +13, BODY +10, STUN +30 [109]
Combat Programming: OCV +6, DCV +6 [48]
Sealed Suit: Life Support (low/high pressure, radiation, cold, heat) [8]
Armored Suit: Resistant Protection PD 10 ED 10 [24]
Digital Link: Mind Link w/ SELA [5]

Firewall: Mental Defense 10 [10]

Checksum and Redundancy Protocols: REC +8, Regeneration 1 BODY/20 minutes [18]

Emulation Layer: Variable Power Pool (30 points, only to emulate skills or copy observed talents -1/2) [40]

Disadvantages:

Accidental Change: when forced by SELA (uncommon, 11-) [-10]

DNPC: SELA (less powerful, useful skills, occasional) [-5]

Hunted: US Army UFO division (more powerful, NCI, infrequent, mild) [-15]

PsyComp: obsessive computer nerd (common, moderate) [-10]

PsyComp: wants to live up to a heroic ideal (common, strong) [-15]

SocComp: secret identity as a minor child (frequent, major) [-15]

Unluck: occasional glitches or bugs in programmed powers [-5]

----

SELA is the Simulated Electronic Life Algorithm, a name given to her by 3D. Previously she existed as a sentient artificial intelligence inhabiting the wreckage of a UFO, for which she acted as pilot and navigator. Currently she exists as an independent robot with some alien technology incorporated into her body.

Stats are for her human-sized form. Alternately she can reduce herself to the size and shape of a doll. She depends on 3D's presence to keep her power cells energized.

Point total is 120, enough to be useful but hopefully low enough to still qualify as a DNPC.

STR 10, DEX 10, CON 10, INT 30, EGO 15, PRE 15 [30]

OCV 3, DCV 3, OMCV 6, DMCV 6, SPD 3 [28]

PD 5, ED 5, REC 6, END 30, BODY 15, STUN 20 [15]

Acrobatics 11-; Analyze: Alien Technology 15-; Combat Piloting 12-; Language (alien binary dialect, native); Language (English, fluent w/ accent); Navigation 15-; SS: Astronomy 15-; SS: Physics 15-; TF: Antigravity Vehicles [24]

Uncannily Attractive: Striking Appearance +3/+3d6 [9]

Computer Brain: Computer Link: all; Eidetic Memory; Lightning Calculator; Speed Reading [22]

Digital Link: Mind Link w/ 3D [5]

Lossless Compression Algorithm: Shrinking: 0.2m high, -8 PER, +8 DCV, +24 KB (Persistent +1/4, Reduced END: none +1/2), STR is affected by shrinking [40]

Antigravity Equation: Flight 30m, x8 NCV (only when shrunk -1/4, physical effect: wings -1/4) [27]

Disadvantages:

Dependence: Limited power cells, requires 3D, commonly available, affects powers (11-), weakness, 1 hour [-15]

DisFeat: Uncanny Valley, concealable [-5]

Hunted: US Army UFO division (more powerful, NCI, infrequent, harsh) [-15]

PhysComp: no knowledge of Earth culture, v. freq, greatly impairing [-25]

SocComp: illegal alien in every sense, no documentation, frequent, major [-15]
