---
date: 2016-04-11
title: Oni and Horus
published: false
categories:
  - Fiction
tags:
  - helping hand
---

Mitsuko Nemoto was asleep in a Tokyo apartment when her Hand called to her.
She woke with a start, then rubbed her eyes.
A blurry glow in her bedroom resolved itself into a floating hologram
hovering above her desk.
Its source was the alien artifact, shaped like a glove, called a Helping Hand.

The Hand and its makers had chosen her to wear it,
to protect life on Earth.
It was connected to alien tech in orbit, constantly monitoring trouble
all over the planet, and able to take her there instantly.
The image was a miniature version of the Earth,
with a trouble spot highlighted.

Mitsuko's eyes widened in delight as she saw the location. Paris!
She stumbled out of bed, almost tripping herself on her pajamas
in her eagerness to grab hold of the Hand.
It instantly wrapped itself around her own hand, forming a perfect fit.
She stabbed her finger down on the glowing holographic button.
Instantly the teleportation beam engulfed her.

Mitsuko adjusted her eyes to the sudden light.
In Tokyo, it was almost midnight. Here in France, it was 5 PM.
She looked around, orienting herself.
She was standing on a rooftop, looking across the Parisian skyline.
The Eiffel Tower rose in the distance, and her eyes widened.
"This is *great*!" she squealed.

The reason she'd been called to Paris was much closer.
Just a block from the building she was standing on,
an apartment high-rise had partially collapsed.
Mitsuko could see fire burning through the upper story windows.
Emergency vehicles were clustered around the entrance.
The collapse was interfering with their ability to get in.

Mitsuko saw curious faces peering out the windows
of the buildings around her.
Their eyes were glued on the apartment for the most part,
but a few citizens were now staring at a petite Japanese girl
who had suddenly materialized in her pajamas.
Her cheeks flamed red with embarrassment.

She sprinted for cover behind a heavy air conditioning unit on the roof.
Once hidden from any prying eyes, she raised the Helping Hand
and called on its power to strengthen, change, and protect all life.
"Transform!".

Green bio-energy poured from the artifact, surrounding and changing her.
Her body grew, and grew, and grew.
Her skin became rough and scaly, developing armored plates and a granite hue.
Horns sprouted from her forehead.
Her straight black hair grew wild and red.
Now ready for anything,
the superheroine who called herself Oni leaped from the rooftop.

SAMU - Service d'Aide Médicale Urgente - personnel were clustered near the entrance.
They wheeled at the crunch of pavement as she landed heavily.
"Helping Hand!" she called out in English, holding up her oversized gauntlet.

Many of the French first responders looked wary - she was a ten-foot tall
monster with gray skin and scales, after all - but they recognized the
name and the symbol she wore.
"Thank you! Your superior is here as well!" one called back.

*Superior?*

Mitsuko looked down at her Helping Hand, and saw two green lights blinking
on the holographic map of the area. One of them was her.
Who was the other one?

----

* Horus appears!
* He's using his animals to recon the building, find civilians, etc.
* He'll order Oni around.
* The pair will escort civilians out.
* There's a Splice at the base of the building. Mole?
* Big fight.
* Horus orders Oni around during the fight.
* She snaps, turns on him, and Mole gets away.
* Horus insults Oni and claims he is the team leader.
* Oni leaves.
* Horus learns he doesn't have that authority.
* He goes back to apologize to Oni.
* The pair somehow find Mole again, and defeat it together. Oni fights using Judo.
* Horus asks Oni to teach him Judo.
* Oni says she looks forward to working with him again.
