Summary: What really happened to Ryushi?
Categories: characters/ryushi

# Exaltation Truth

The inner chamber was round; perhaps fifteen yards in diameter, in the shape of a squat cylinder. Every visible surface was covered in gold that sparkled in the light of Balas' glowing Caste Mark and the ever-glowing lamps that Ryushi and Ku carried. And at the center was an oblong sarcophagus, also made of gold, and etched by craftsmanship whose like had long disappeared from the world. Atop the sarcophagus, and embedded in a cunningly-shaped niche, was a magnificent golden sword. The workmanship was such that the trio couldn't quite be sure if it was part of the design, or a real weapon embedded in the tomb. The Scavenger Lord and his companions could scarcely believe their find, and even Balas forgot the blood streaming from his torn-up left arm. "This is it," the Outcaste whispered. "This is the inner sanctum. And we are the first...."

A shrill scream answered his whisper, coming from every direction at once. As though melted to the boiling point, the walls of gold began to bulge and writhe. The blisters that formed burst, and ropy tendrils of some animate vine burst forth. They swung about like hungry cobras, then darted forward to spear the beleaguered explorers. Ryushi watched them leap for Balas, his master and patron. He was the man's bodyguard; his life for his master's. That was his role in life, and he would not disappoint the gods who were watching. He leaped forward, bodily throwing Balas out of the way, even as the malevolent vines sank deep into his abdomen. He felt a rush of blood, felt his chest grow hot and wet. A convulsion ran through his body, and he coughed in response, watching blood spill out of his mouth and onto the slick green of the vines before him. And more were darting past him, hoping to take Balas' life. The Terrestrial couldn't move fast enough, but Ryushi still could. *Not yet,* he thought. *My strength isn't gone yet... I will serve my purpose still.* He reached out, grabbing hold of the remaining vines as they sought to rush past him and take his master's life after all. Though he knew others might be out of sight and reach, he knew he must do as much as he still could.

A wave of golden light washed over him, and through him. He lost his sense of time and place. The warmth of his lifeblood spilling out of his torso mingled with the radiant feeling engulfing him. **You are strong,** a voice boomed in his mind. **You are the resolute champion who shall be heir to the power your predecessors squandered. Take the determination you have shown in coming here, and remake your world with it.** A coruscant aura of power engulfed him. As he blazed to life, the vines withdrew, and the mortal wounds they had left behind began to close of their own accord. And on his brow was an incandescent starburst that would forever more brand him as the condemned champion he had just become.

Behind him, Balas was dying, killed by those vines Ryushi couldn't reach. He glanced left, to see Ku impaled and dead on other vines. And he looked again at the shining figure of Ryushi, trapped in a column of golden Essence, his wounds healing before the Terrestrial's eyes. Balas smiled quietly, ignoring a rivulet of blood running from the left side of his mouth. "I have finally seen it," he croaked, unheard by any but himself. "The Exaltation.. of the Anathema. So beautiful..."  He had braved countless dangers in his life, and he had unlocked many secrets of the old world. He had been a bold hero in his own time; now, he was content with knowledge. Now, that torch was being passed. His subordinate would learn first-hand the truths of the Anathema - he would have to in order to survive. And with the Sun's power burned into his vision and his memory, the Scavenger Lord died satisfied.

Ryushi felt power exploding from him. He merely gestured; blades of power flung themselves from his anima, cutting the vines in the room to inanimate chunks. Another wave of power burst forth from his anima, and the tomb shuddered. Its defenses deactivated themselves at his instinctive command. And at the heart of the tomb, the warrior began to regain his mortal consciousness.