Summary: A Dawn Caste Solar.
Categories: characters

# Ryushi

The Calonnu Family; Early Childhood
-----------------------------------

When Ragara Varantil, black-sheep scion of House Ragara, was exiled to the Eastern Threshold, his retainers of the Calonnu family went as well.  They had no loyalty to anyone but he, and they likewise had no patronage except his.  Varantil's wealth had sustained the family that for three mortal generations had acted as the servants of his bloodline.  The Calonnu's fortunes were bound to their Exalted master's as tightly as a Guildsman's fist around his purse in Nexus.  With Varantil the family braved the stormy waves of the Inner Sea.  With him the family moved into the broken-down mansion on the outskirts of Calin's capital city.

Upon Varantil's orders, the Calonnu even sold its younger and less promising members into slavery to support their lord.  Some of the children were uncomfortably independent, failing to show the proper respect to the master who meant life to the Calonnu.  Their lives would mean additional income and the removal of future difficulties, and so this order was carried out without compunction.  One of these children was named Endan by his mother.  He was strong, quick, and quiet even as a youth.  Upon his sixth birthday, he was sold to slavers outside of Calin and turned a tidy profit.  His athletic build and seemingly quiet nature suggested that he'd make an ideal slave-fighter.  Accordingly he was resold to one of the "masters of the arena", headquartered in Nexus.

Life As A Slave
---------------

For the next four years the young man knew his name as "Pit-boy", one of the lads who supported the fighters in the underground arena called Shoubuya.  Along with the other pit-boys, he would bring medicines to wounded warriors, carry weapons about, polish arms and armor and other duties.  He was not kept in chains or restrained, but his new owners made his status clear.  He belonged to them, and he would return to them at the end of the day, or they would track him down and make him regret running.  To the boy, this was alright, as Nexus was an exciting city, and his masters were much more interesting than the distant godling who occasionally haunted his nightmares of his earliest years.

When he was away from his masters, Endan and his fellow pit-boys would wander the city of Nexus.  Its pulse became familiar to him; its chaotic ways seemed sensible to him.  He imagined it like a strong river, just like the Yanaze, in which he waded.  As long as he stayed in the shallow end, and waded carefully, he would not be swept away on the current.  He saw his new owners as his parents, or something that answered the same purpose, and he knew that they would not help him if he moved into rougher waters on his own.  And so when traveling in Nexus he followed the advice of the arena masters: "travel in packs. go armed. make no eye contact. show no fear."

His masters were not particularly unkind.  The only hint of violence they ever gave was to slaves who dared to escape.  Endan's earliest years had been rebellious because of the confinement and strict rules of his family.  Here, in this strange place, he felt more free as a slave than he ever had as the child of a noble's retainer.

Ryushi Appears; The Fate of the Shoubuya Arena
----------------------------------------------

Around his tenth birthday, Endan received a new name: Ryushi.  He also received a distinctive tattoo on his lower back, illustrating four dragons joining together to form the characters that read "Shoubuya".  Because he was not yet old enough to participate in the fighting that characterized the arena, but because he was now able to handle the weapons used there, his education in the arts of battle began.  He was taught the sword, the axe, and the spear.  He was instructed in the art of "kenbu", the sword dance, and other non-violent performance techniques possible with weapons.  His masters intended to use the youth to bring a profit as early as possible, and his developing skills were put on for displays between arena bouts.  More frequently he would appear on the streets along with one of the older boys, putting on his shows and collecting money from appreciative audiences.  Nobody tried to rob the pair; attacking anyone demonstrating considerable skill with swords presents an obvious problem.  He was given other assignments as well - private performances, or sometimes "show duels" - and worked for some of the rich and influential beings of Nexus in this capacity.

Five years passed in this way.  Ryushi grew into the strong, capable young man he had always been fated to become.  The older men of an arena treated all the child-slaves as younger brothers and sisters, and Ryushi accepted them more and more as his family.  As he himself grew, and new slaves were brought into the fold, he began to take the same role with them that his seniors had taken with him.  His masters and owners, once thought of as paternal and protective figures, resembled employers and later dominators.  Despite the strong impulse of loyalty he felt to them, they would never be the family his fellow slaves could be.

Unknown to the young man, a sworn brotherhood of fiercely anti-slavery Dragon-Bloodeds had been supporting the emancipation movement that operated in and around the city of Nexus.  These Terrestrials believed in the Immaculate philosophy and its teachings, despite the fact that they themselves were Outcastes from the Realm. They saw the teachings as advocating freedom for all slaves.  Shoubuya was only one of their targets.

In the night, fire and screams roused the young men in the barracks.  They rushed out, thinking to defend themselves.  What they found was a small group of demigods with their jade weapons, putting paid to their masters.  Many fought, and the Outcastes were forced to kill the more aggressive and highly-trained adult fighters.  During the fighting, Ryushi got his hands on a straight sword and attacked the men destroying his home.  He managed to slice open the cheek of one of the attackers, who would have struck him down but for the intervention of another man.  This one, a Dragon-Blooded with sky-blue hair and blue raiment, held up a hand, saying only: "Recruit him".  The next thing Ryushi knew, he had been struck on the back of the neck with a savage chop.  His senses left him.

Life as a Protector
-------------------

Ryushi awoke in darkness.  A cup of water was pressed to his lips, and he drank greedily.  He opened his eyes, seeing the source of the water.  The man in blue was smiling at him again.  "You have been freed of those who thought to use your life as a piece of property," this man said.  "My friends rescued you."  Ryushi, accustomed to life among the powerful, said nothing.  All that he knew was that his family had been taken from him.  The man, seeming to sense this feeling in the youth, laid a reassuring hand on his shoulder.  "Your friends are alive, and free," he said.  "You will meet them again if you join us."  And of course such an offer could not be refused.

The young man learned what his role was to be.  The sworn brotherhood was separating to pursue other interests (and to avoid reparations from many angry men of power in Nexus).  The man in blue who'd taken an interest in Ryushi was called Balas, and he was a Scavenger Lord: a hunter of relics, a treasure-seeker and loremaster.  Because Balas was going his own way, he would be losing the services of his sworn brotherhood and its notable fighter and brawler.  Ryushi was offered the job of bodyguard, as replacement.  He accepted.

Over the next week, Ryushi met four other of his old comrades from Shoubuya.  They, too, were freely offered employment with Balas.  All accepted.  The Scavenger Lord also retained the services of three other mortals: an experienced priest, and two explorers and survivalists.  Balas paid them in jade and gave them weapons, armor, and whatever else they asked for.

Ryushi passed eight years in the employ of Balas.  Sometimes the man's Dragon-Blooded companions would rejoin him; sometimes they were busy elsewhere.  Through it all, the young gladiator got to study his future pursuers, the Terrestrial Exalted.  He watched in stark amazement when Balas employed his acts of sorcery.  He heard from the Scavenger Lord the mysteries of Essence and was told stories of the great things that "Charms" could accomplish.  And through it all, he was indoctrinated in the Immaculate philosophy.  He remembered the veneration his family had lavished on their Exalted master during his formative years.  He saw the apparent kindness to his brothers and sisters that Balas and his fellow Exalts showed.  And he slowly began to believe.

The Tomb of Dread Repose
------------------------

Over the years, some of those of Ryushi's "family" who had joined with Balas drifted away - either because the work was too dangerous, or because they discovered romance or greed.  Balas himself had fallings-out with some of his sworn brothers because of his "immoderate" (or too-moderate) attitudes on the Anathema of old.  His tomb-raiding and scholarly studies had given him a more reasoned perspective on the ancients than his fellows were comfortable with.  He had, they claimed, broken with the tradition of the Immaculate doctrine.  Balas knew this was foolishness, but he could not bring himself to renounce his habits of lecturing even when he knew it was broadening the breach between himself and his companions.

Ryushi had become a man, and a skillful fighter at arms.  Besides his ability at brawling and wrestling, he was an accomplished swordsman, axe-man and archer.  His ability to protect Balas had often been bolstered by the savant's own Charms, and Ryushi was at least somewhat familiar with the experience of receiving an Essence-laden blessing to strengthen his fighting power.  And so he was confident of his abilities, fearing little even as the group planned its excursion to a place called "the Tomb of Dread Repose".

Ryushi had little heart for such matters.  Although Balas had tutored him somewhat in the ways of a Scavenger Lord, he saw the young man only as a guardian, not as a pupil.  The lessons he imparted were those that would keep his protector alive.  And so Ryushi would wait outside while Balas and his more knowledgeable cohorts worked in their tent.

The Tomb itself was a dismal place unfit for any living being and perhaps even for the dead.  Other would-be graverobbers could be found unburied outside, the face of each one frozen into a horribly grinning rictus.  Nevertheless Balas knew how to defeat the arcane wards and the group entered.

Ryushi had never seen a place so terrible.  Even Balas was nervous going in, and as guard after guard fell to bound demons or other nameless dangers, the other scholars urged him to retreat.  But Balas was adamant.

The time between entry and the final breath Ryushi took has always been a blur.  He vaguely remembers being covered in his own blood at one point, but that seemed to burn off later.  The last sight before the light took him was Balas, lying face-down in a pool of black blood.

The Exaltation
--------------

Ryushi Exalted in the Tomb.  It was the resting-place of one of the Solars of the First Age; the cunning, elaborate wards and other barriers were too much for even an experienced tomb-robber and treasure-seeker like Balas.  They were almost too much for Ryushi, and yet even when his Terrestrial patron had given up hope of survival, the need to live on burned brightly in the heart of the young man who had lost two families in his life.

The spark of the Unconquered Sun entered his soul, and he burned with power.  The tomb's defenses left him alone, either because of his new-found heritage or because they thought him already dead, for a mortal wound had been dealt.  He regained consciousness, discovering that his wounds had healed almost magically.  He also found in his hands a great golden sword, almost as high as a teenage boy, with a watery motif carved along its hilt.  "Daoyang," he said, in a voice that burned with heavenly fire from his recently-restored lungs.  He knew the name of the blade, as surely as he knew his own.  He wrapped it in Balas' discarded cloak, claiming it as his inheritance from this place, only pausing to lift the dead man to one shoulder before leaving the tomb.

Balas was laid to rest with every honor Ryushi knew how to pronounce over him, and the nascent Solar vowed to leave messages for the remaining members of Balas' brotherhood to inform them of his fate.  A choice now lay ahead of the young man, and it pained him.  He had grown up with the Immaculate doctrines.  He knew enough of Balas' teachings to realize what he had become: Anathema, the enemy of the Realm and of peace.  He had come awake with a blade in his hands, and Balas had been dead when he regained himself.  Had he slain his teacher, possessed by the malice of the ancient Anathema?  Or had the numerous traps of the tomb itself done him in?  He didn't feel any guilt or remorse in his heart, but he also acknowledged that he did not know the truth.

The Dreams
----------

Ryushi traveled, carrying the great blade Daoyang out of sight.  He brought many of Balas' minor trinkets and books with him, reasoning that in their pages he might uncover more knowledge of his newly Exalted state.  His fighting talent had gone from merely impressive to nearly legendary as a result of his transformation, and as a result he was able to support himself in this existence.  During his travels, and during many of his battles, he began to feel the flows of magic inside himself.  He discovered some of the magical gifts that Balas had talked about - Charms.  He learned, slowly and fitfully, how to manipulate the currents of Essence when wielding Daoyang, for it seemed at first that his Essence would only respond when the sword was in his hand.

It was two months after his Exaltation, in the Month of Ascending Water, that Ryushi began having the dream that was to be a constant companion in the future.  In it, he stood on the shores of a beach on some far-distant isle, looking westward at the setting Sun.  The water was an impossibly beautiful blue, and ripples in it revealed the presence of sea-birds and water-creatures at play or feeding.  Beside him stood a young woman with a long golden braid trailing down her back.  Her blue eyes reflected the color of the water, and a faint smile adorned her lips.  The dream would always end when she turned and parted her lips, about to speak.  Sometimes it would be Ryushi who turned to speak, but invariably the dream concluded before either could voice a word.  At first Ryushi dismissed it as a fantasy-dream or phantom of his loveless life, but as it persisted he began to grow convinced that it meant something.

Unable to find any answers in the books he'd brought with him, Ryushi hesitantly approached an old sage who lived near the city of Great Forks, who he'd become acquainted with in his search for understanding.  The venerable old woman told him that the dreams were certainly prophetic, or at least meaningful, and to seek the place out if he wanted answers.  Wondering if the wave-pattern on Daoyang was also an omen of his eventual destiny in the West, Ryushi resolved to make his way there and find out.
